Hey guys. In this tutorial, we are going to learn how to open a new activity when clicking a button
For this, we start a new Android Studio project
We keep the name as it is and click "Next"
We keep the "Minimum SDK" as well
And we choose "Empty Activity"
Here we keep the name as well and click "Finish"
Now of course, we need a second activity. So we right-click on our package
New->Activity->Empty Activity
We call the name "Activity2"
And click "Finish"
Now, let's prepare the layout for our MainActivity
We change this ConstraintLayout to a RelativeLayout
And let's change this TextView to "Activity 1"
We can also delete these constrains here
And we put this text in the middle
Let's copy this layout for our second activity
Go to Activity2
Paste it here
And we change the text to "Activity 2"
So we always see which activity we are in currently
Back to our MainActivity
Because now of course, we also have to add a button
Which brings us to our Activity2
So we add a Button. wrap_content width and height
We set the text to:
"open activity 2"
And it also needs an ID. So we write id
+id
And we set the ID to simply "button"
And let's put this button under this TextView here
Okay, nice. Back to our MainActivity.java file
First, we need to prepare a variable for our button. So we write:
private Button button;
And down here in our onCreate() method we are going to initialize this button
We say: button = findViewById(R.id.button)
Which is our XML id for this button
Semicolon.. and of course we also have to cast it to a Button here
Nice.
Next we set an onClickListener() for this button
We write button.setOnClickListener(new View.OnClickListener())
And in this OnClick() method we are going to call
openActivity2();
And we create this method down here
We write: public void openActivity2()
And in here we are going to open our second activity
And this is very simple process. We simply create an Intent with
Intent intent = new Intent()
We pass the context, which is "this"
And we pass the class we want to open
Which is Activity2.class
And in the next line we write:
startActivity() and we pass the intent we just created
And that's basically the whole process
This part here will open the second activity. Let's test it
Okay, as you can see here we are in Activity 1 currently
Now we click our button
And we changed to Activity2
When we click the back button, we get back to Activity 1
And if you click again, we go back to Activity 2
I hope this was helpful. Take care